Onto our next test.
So we want to make sure that we can only access this root handler if the user is actually signed in.
Let's first just create a test for this and we'll worry about the actual implementation.
So I'm going to put in a body to this thing.
I'm going to try to make a request over.
To my app.
I again want to make a post request to API tickets and again I'm going to send in an empty object.
So in this scenario right here, we are not authenticated in any way.
We are not sending this request with any kind of status code or any kind of cookie JSON, web token,
anything like that.
So if we just send this right here, this is going to simulate us making a request to this handler as
if we were not signed in.
So we need to now look at that response and make sure that it has a status code that is somehow telling
us that we are not correctly authenticated.
That means that we're going to have to get a quick reminder on what happens when we make a request that
we are essentially not authenticated to make.
It's going to go back over to my common library.
Inside there, I'll find the ears directory.
And you might recall that a while ago, back when we were working on the service, we put together a
custom error called Not Authorized Error.
This was the error that we would throw whenever a user tried to make a request to a root handler that
they were not allowed to make a request to.
So if we try to make a request to a handler that we're not authorized to access, we should be getting
back a status code of 401.
So back inside this test, we can either take a look at the response and write out something very similar
to what we wrote out up here.
So in other words, we could say expect response status to equal for a one, because in this case,
we want to make sure that our not authenticated request gets rejected.
Or alternatively, we could just chain on and expect statement to the request itself of 401.
If we do that, we do not need to get access to the response itself or write out the separate expectation.
Okay.
Let's save this.
We're going to go back over to my terminal again and I'll see that that second test is failing.
So we expected or we want to see that we got a 401.
But we actually got through to our handler with the status code of 200 coming back to us.
So that means that right now we do not have any idea of authentication being tied to this route.
HANDLER So we need to now go into our implementation.
We need to make sure we add something in to say, hey, if the user is not authenticated, get them
out of here.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, once again, you might recall that when we were working on our service, we kind of thought ahead
and we realized that at some point in time, we would probably need some middleware to detect whether
or not the user was actually authenticated.
And to that end, we put together two different middleware as we put together a middleware called Current
User.
So I'm inside of my common module right now.
Here's the current user middleware.
The whole goal of this thing was to take a look at the incoming request session property and see if
there's a JSON web token there.
If there wasn't a token, we just called next.
Otherwise, if there was, we attempted to decode the token and then set it on the current user property.
The the current user middleware was just about defining that recurrent user property.
That was it.
That's all we cared about with this thing.
The other middleware that we put together was require off.
So I'm going to open that up really quick.
The require off middleware is going to take a look at that current user property.
And if it is not defined, we're going to throw a not authorized error.
So all we really have to do to implement some level of authentication protection around our handler
is wire up both the current user middleware and the require middleware as well.
That's pretty much it.
So where are we going to actually?
Why are these things up?
Well, every single request that comes into our application, if the user is authenticated or has a
JSON web token, we probably want to do that current user lookup.
So inside of our APTs file, we're going to import that current user middleware inside of here and wired
up to our app so that every single incoming request is going to have that look up and see whether or
not the user is authenticated.
But if the user is not authenticated, we don't necessarily want to immediately reject them.
Instead, we only want to reject requests that are coming in to a very specific route handlers.
So for example, if someone is trying to look up a list of all tickets or look up a very specific ticket,
we probably don't want to make someone be authenticated for that.
So I don't really want to require authentication on these two handlers.
But in order to make a post to create a ticket or to update a ticket, I probably do.
So only some handlers need to have that require auth middleware wired up.
So long story short, here's what we're going to do inside of APTs.
I'm going to find my common module import and I'll add on the current user middleware.
Well then connect that to my application down here app.
Use burnt user.
Make sure you add that middleware after Cookie's session.
Cookie session has to run first so it can take a look at the cookie and set the rest session property.
If we don't do that, then whenever a current user runs, it will be running too soon and rect session
will not be set.
So now if the user is authenticated, that will set the correct current user property.
And now we can go over to our actual root handler.
So inside of Roots notes, and this is where we will apply some actual authentication protection and
make sure that the user is authenticated.
So at the very top, this is where we will import the require auth middleware from my common module.
And I will apply that as a middleware inside my route handler.
The require off like so.
Okay.
Let's save that.
Flip back over and now that test is passing.
Cool.
Now, I just kind of realized we should probably write out a test that kind of checks for the opposite.
So if we want to write a test to make sure this thing can only be used at the user is signed in, we
probably should have a test that says if the user is signed in, we should not return a status code
of 400.
I think that makes a little bit of sense because right now we could be signed in and who knows, maybe
that request handler still isn't working correctly.
So we should probably just write out a test to make sure that's working as expected.
So I'm going to put in another test right here and I'll say.
The user or how about returns?
A.
Status other than for one, if the user is signed in.
Then to write out this test, we can do something very similar to what we did back up here.
So in this case, we need to make sure that the status code is not equal to a 401.
So let's write out a test for that.
So we'll do a concert.
Response is a weight.
Request to EP.
I'm going to make a post to API tickets.
I will send an empty object and I will do and expect response status not to equal or one.
All right.
Now, if I flip back over.
I will see an air around that test.
It looks like that new test is failing entirely.
The reason that is failing is because, well, we are still making a request right here that is not
authenticated in any way.
So we need to figure out some method or some methodology to make an authenticated request inside of
our test environment.
You might recall that when we put together our test suite back inside the service we had put together
inside of our setup file that global sign in function right here.
So I'm at the bottom of our setup file.
We put this thing together over here.
And unfortunately, this thing is only going to work correctly inside of our service.
This video is running a little bit long, however.
So let's take a pause right here.
When we come back in the next video, I'm going to explain to you why this thing will only work in the
service and then start to fix it up so we can use it over here inside of tickets.